* ***Real-name system*** is a system in which users can register an account on a blog, website or bulletin board system using their legal name. It is used by several countries including China, Germany, South Korea as well as some famous social networking sites including Facebook, Twitter. [[1]](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-name_system>) The main purpose of this system is to avoid anonymous crime.  In some perspective, it does make the online system more secure since it increases accountability and makes the system more professional appearance. [[2]](<http://www.managingcommunities.com/2011/01/20/usernames-vs-real-names-on-your-community-pros-and-cons/>) However, there is unintended consequence of this countermeasure. 
* ***Displacement***:  Since the public network (system) is real-name based, criminals might be encouraged implicitly to use other anonymous systems or network like dark web. For example, if online shop is set to be real-name system, customer who want to protect their personal information might turn to dark web to buy products. As a consequence, the dark web might be enlarged. Therefore displacement consequence might be involved. 
* ***Insecure norms***: As a consequence of displacement, more techniques to provide anonymity might be developed to support larger number of anonymous user in dark web. Therefore, insecure behavior is encouraged. 
* ***Additional costs***: Use of real-name system also increase additional costs. For normal users, they need to provide more information such as citizenship ID or mobile binding when registering a new account. For system provider (either government or website provider), they need to provide additional protection of user information since it is more dangerous to leak the information when the system is real-name. 
* ***Misuse***: The information of user might be misused. Once the information is not protected, real-name information can be more harmful to the users since attackers can identify each one of target more accurately. 
* ***Amplification***: The real-name system is considered to reduce cyberbullying since the everyone uses real-name, everyone is expected to behave more appropriately. However, some user may prefer to use anonymous account to share some feeling which they do not want to share with real-name to avoid bullying. Once their real-name is published, they may fall in trouble in real life. 
* ***Disruption***: As mentioned in previous paragraph, some user may not willing to share their feelings with real name. If real-name system is enforced, their operation can be interrupted. 